# Life-Expectancy-Forecasting
## Context
Although there have been numerous research conducted in the past on factors influencing life expectancy, including demographic demographics, income composition, and death rates. It was discovered that the effect of immunization on the human development index was not previously considered. In addition, some previous study considered multiple linear regression using a one-year data set for all nations. As a result, this provides incentive to address both of the previously mentioned concerns by developing a regression model based on a mixed effects model and multiple linear regression, while taking data from 2000 to 2015 for all nations. Important immunizations such as Hepatitis B, Polio, and Diphtheria will be considered.

In a nutshell, this study will look at immunization, mortality, economic, and social determinants, as well as other health-related aspects. Because the observations in this dataset come from various countries, it will be easier for a country to identify the predicting factor that is leading to the lower value of life expectancy. This will assist a country in determining which areas should be prioritized in order to effectively raise the life expectancy of its population.

## Content
The project depends on the correctness of the data. The Global Health Observatory (GHO), a data repository under the World Health Organization (WHO), keeps track of the health status and many other relevant factors for all countries. The data sets are made available to the public for health-related data analysis. The data set on life expectancy and health factors for 193 nations was gathered from the same WHO data repository website, while the comparable economic data was gathered from the United Nations website. Only the most representative crucial health-related elements were selected from all categories.

It has been observed that there has been significant advancement in the health sector during the last 15 years, resulting in lower human mortality rates, particularly in developing countries, compared to the previous 30 years. As a result, for this study, we analyzed data from 193 nations between 2000 and 2015. The separate data files have been combined into a single data-set. Initial visual inspection of the data revealed some missing numbers. We identified no obvious mistakes in the WHO data sets. Missing data was handled in R software with the Missmap command. 

The result indicated that most of the missing data was for population, Hepatitis B and GDP. The missing data were from less known countries like Vanuatu, Tonga, Togo, Cabo Verde etc. Finding all data for these countries was difficult and hence, it was decided that we exclude these countries from the final model data-set. The final merged file(final dataset) consists of 16 Columns and 2461 rows which meant 13 predicting variables. All predicting variables was then divided into several broad categories:Immunization related factors, Mortality factors, Economical factors and Social factors.

